This is the Tasks surface — the fan-out board, and the home screen of Asylum. Everything starts here.
Create a new task. A task is a title and a prompt against the current project. Right now it's just a draft — nothing has run.
Make your first prompt small and verifiable. 'Add a version flag to the CLI that prints the version and exits zero.' A clear success criterion means you can actually score the result later.
Pick the agents to race. Two is plenty for a first task — claude-code and codex.
Now dispatch. This is the fan-out — and here's exactly what Asylum does.
One: it allocates a branch and a worktree per agent. Two: it creates each worktree on its branch, an isolated checkout on disk. Three: it records one run per agent and launches that agent in its own terminal pane.
Two runs, racing the same prompt in complete isolation. Neither can see or clobber the other's files.
Each card shows the agent, a status badge, the branch it's on, elapsed time, and a live terminal you can open.
Two different signals tell you what's happening. First, status — the lifecycle of the process. Queued means the worktree's allocated but the agent hasn't started. Running means it's live.
When it ends: succeeded if it exited cleanly, failed if it exited non-zero, cancelled if you stopped it.
The second signal is activity — what the agent is doing right now, shown as a colored chip. We'll spend the whole next episode on this, because it's how you know which agent needs you.
Click a run to watch its live terminal. This is a real pane streaming the agent's output — the same engine as the standalone terminal.
As each pty produces output, Asylum snapshots the transcript into its store, so it survives even after the process is gone.
The task itself moves through states too — draft, then running as its runs work, then review when they're ready, and merged once you pick a winner.
Give them a moment. When a run succeeds, Asylum commits its changes and kicks off that worktree's checks automatically.
Two attempts at one prompt, side by side, ready to compare. That's a fan-out.
Next: reading the activity chips to spot the agent that needs you.